### Self-Assessment

As I started my education at SNHU I thought I was well prepared for the computer science field but quickly found that I only had a cursory understanding of the basics.  I had built computers and upgraded them and as I went through my classes I learned not just new things in the field but it helped me understand more of what goes into some things.  When it came to the programing classes it felt very much like jumping into the deep end of a pool and learning to swim, trying to piece together an understanding of the languages was a trying endeavor but also rewarding when you finally get something to work.  Leaning the different programming languages helped me to see the evolution of them as they went and highlighted the improvements. My basic understanding of programming now has changed the way I think about apps and such and when I see some things I start to think about possible ways it was completed and it gives me a deeper appreciation of the work people put into them.

### Team Collaboration:
Team collaboration is a staple of what I learned and especially with the increase in the number of companies letting people work from home as the Covid-19 pandemic continues is one of the greatest aspects of this field.  With little effort through appropriate setup and planning lets people in the computer science field function with little to no impact on the process compared to other sectors of employment.  I picked up on a bunch of the security concerns involved with this type of team collaboration environment and also ways to prevent and mitigate them.  The ability to easy create new versions of a project from a repository and then integrate them back together without degrading the integrity of the main branch is a key factor of the process and allows a team to work seamlessly.  The key factor I took from my classes about team collaboration was regardless the project development plan communication is key, proper comments on code check in and out or annotation in the code helps streamline the process and support the division of labor and responsibility of a team.

### Communicating with Customers:
One thing this course helped hammer home that I see in my current field is how important communication is be it internally or externally with the customer.  When you begin a project the customer is going to have the general idea of what it is they actually want and effective communication in the beginning can help alleviate misconceptions or assumptions.  Keeping the customer in the loop as the project progresses is a huge benefit to prevent the need for patches or reworks to adjust features that may not work as they desire.  This will help make them feel more attached to the project as it progresses and assist with guiding the team more effectively.  This should all be filtered through the project lead as they will help communication flow more smoothly in both directions while keeping the customer from being overwhelmed with information that may not make sense to them.

### Data Structures and Algorithms:
The course of study has helped highlight the how imperative it is to structure your code in an effective manner and when paired with a more efficient storage method can improve the project experience.  One of the key points I took away was that the proper storage can help determine how complex of a search algorithm is needed for the project.  The most complex search algorithm is not always the best and may bog down the rest of the project when a more simplex one is needed and likewise if there is an abundance of data to search a simple algorithm is going to slow things down.  Choosing the right tool for the job will help streamline the project and make it work more efficiently in the end.

### Software Engineering and Databases:
This course of study has provided the opportunity to work with a number of different database models, providing the opportunity to learn how to interact with them in a variety of ways.  It has proven challenging while trying to figure out if and how data can be manipulated.  I have taken what I have learned and already started to implement some of it in databases that I use in my correct field of employment and will continue as I move forward.

### Security:
The security aspect of coding was something that resonated with me and the importance of it only grew as I progressed through my classes.  The number of data breaches seems to only increase as time moves forward as there is no perfect solution but a continuous evolution on both the side of the defender and attacker.  I think my time serving in the military and then as a military contractor provided with a general understand that expanded with the course.  Through the course I learned that a lot of breaches are not complex schemes but brute force or social engineering that makes protection even harder when you have to factor in the human element.  The emphasis that was placed on physical security and training was not lost on me and highlighted as some of the most effective means to make you a hard target and less likely to be targeted if there is an easier target of opportunity.

### Project Inclusion:
At the start if my project I decided to take the dataset that was used in my CS-260 class where we used a binary search tree and different search algorithms to showcase how long different search types would take to increase efficiency.  My intent was to take this project that was programed in C++ and convert it to Python as had been completed in a similar fashion with a different class.  I also pulled a python dashboard project from another class that was complete in a virtual desktop using Jupyter Notebook, as I no longer have access to that environment I had to pull the code into Visual Studio and work it directly into Python.  One of the biggest things I learned in my classes was to look at was already exists and change it to meet your needs which is what I did with these projects or parts of them to make my project function how I wanted.

###[     Link to Chosen Artifact](https://github.com/bahb007/Capstone/tree/gh-pages/Project%20Artifact%20Originals)

The artifact I chose for this was pieces taken from two separate projects in different classes Data Structures and Algorithms and Client/Server Development.

###[     Link to my Code Review](https://youtu.be/Pxpr_aF1hHg)


## Enhancements and Reflections:
The enhancements I intend to implement will take the dataset in the form of a .csv file which I plan to utilize with MongoDB that will require authentication to access.  This will provide the functionality for the database to be edited properly and provide better visual indication after the data has been edited and during search functions.  It is my intent for the program to run through a dashboard that will be similar to the one I used for my CS-340 Client/Server Development class providing a graphical user interface that will make the entire project more user friendly.
The enhancements/update I intent to implement will use the skills I have been learning to take the basic C++ program we created in our class and making it into a more professional quality program that is much more user friendly then it was to begin with.  This will begin with updating the program to a newer and easier programming language for readability and editing on the programmer’s side, this will ease the process of making these updates and any future updates and changes required of the program.  Updating the program setup adding the authentication and access process will begin to implement security features and create a protected database in line with the information security best practices and lay the foundation to prevent exploits or vulnerabilities in the future.  


## [Enhancement One Reflection :](https://github.com/bahb007/Capstone/tree/gh-pages/Michno%20eBids%20Project%20Milestone%20Two)
For my first enhancement I brought the core of my project from a C++ development environment and translate it into python within Visual Studio.  Out of all my enhancements this was the easiest for me to complete.  Later conversions from different environments proved to be more difficult but all in all not too bad.

## [Enhancement Two Reflection :](https://github.com/bahb007/Capstone/tree/gh-pages/Michno%20eBids%20Project%20Milestone%20Three)
For my second enhancement I was taking an element form my CS-340 class where we created a CRUD file to edit and read a database for an animal shelter.  I pulled these in their own python project and set it up to use the MongoDB login authentication.  Bringing the CRUD code over itself was not difficult though looking forward to what I intend for the third enhancement is where I see the difficulty arising.

## [Enhancement Three Reflection :](https://github.com/bahb007/Capstone/tree/gh-pages/Michno%20eBids%20Project%20Milestone%20Four)
For the third enhancement and bringing everything together I was trying to get the bids stored in MongoDB which I set up a free server to hold instead of trying to set up a physical server on my home PC.  The dashboard provides a nice graphical interface and is more user friendly though in the end it is lacking all the functions I desired.  Created nested menus proved to be much more difficult than I had anticipated.  I had wanted the menus to drop down with options to add/edit/delete as required and when I could not get all that to work I tried to allow editing without the drop down system but ran out of time to get it all completed.  I have added functions for sorting and deleting but just need more time to puzzle it out.


